Welcome back everyone.
It's time to begin discussing the very basics of control flow.
We're going to start by talking about comparison and logical operators comparison operators basically
allow us to compare two different objects.
So for numbers we can do things like compare if one is less than two or if two is greater than one.
The other object types we can also just straight up compare or do the same thing.
We can do this with an equals equal sign or we can compare if they're not the same thing with an exclamation
mark will sign.
So we're going to see some examples of those and we'll also expand this to do things like greater than
or equal to or less than or equal to.
Now for logical operators those are going to allow us to combine multiple comparison operators essentially
chaining comparison operations.
Let's get a better idea of all this by jumping over to the Adam text editor.
OK here I am I thought py file.
I want to start a couple of basic examples such as greater than or equal to.
So we're going to say one greater than two.
And I'm going to print the results of this so we can see it at our command line and then we'll kind
of play around with this.
So these are basic comparisons these comparison operators basically allowing us to compare two numbers
together is one greater than two.
And that's going to bring back the boolean false.
So far so good.
If I were to change this to something that would be true like is three greater than 2.
I run that again that we get.
True.
So the basic comparison you can make are greater then or less then and then you can also do greater
than or equal to or less than or equal to.
So for example is three Lessner equal to 2.
Well that's going to do false.
If we run this.
But let's change this to three.
So it's three Lessner equal to three.
Well that's true x 3 is equal to 3.
So when you run that back you get true.
So those are the main person operators for numbers really useful ones are when you compare for equality.
So for example if I just wanted to compare for equality I used to equal signs.
So two equal science performance comparison one equal signs here will actually give you an error because
it's going to try to do a variable assignment.
So remember for comparisons used to equal signs.
So we're going to say three is equal to three.
And when you read that you get back.
True.
And if you want to check Nonni quality you can say is three not equal to three which would give us false
because 3 is equal to 3.
So on a run that I get back false.
Keep in mind this sort of equality doesn't just have to be for numbers.
So for example let's say we have some sort of username and the username provided is adamant.
And then we have our own check inside the system so I'll say our check is equal to admin as well.
And notice I've capitalized am both.
Well I could do is saying Prince is username equal to my check and that's something we're going to be
doing a lot through our code checking for equality.
And this ends up becoming true.
So what's really useful about comparison operations is then you can check for things to be true or false
and then run code based off those decisions.
For example if a user name was admin and it equaled our check maybe we give this person more permissions
for a web site that sort of thing.
OK so those are comparison operators.
But often you'll want to have multiple comparisons done at the same time.
So for that you can use logical operators like and or or.
So let's show you an example of that.
Let's start with a simple comment.
So I'm sort of a very simple example of is one equal to 1.
So as you would expect when I run this I get back.
True.
Let's imagine I want to do another comparison maybe is one equal to 1 and is 2 less than three.
So now when I run this I get back.
True because one is equal to 1 and 2 is less than three.
But let's make one of these.
Not the case because.
And it's going to need to check for all conditions to be true.
So now when you run this you're going to get back false because one is not equal to two.
So and requires that all conditions be true.
If I changed this to or that requires at least one of these conditions to be true.
So now when you run this you're going to get back true because even though the first one is false the
second one happens to be true.
So those are the AND and OR.
And you can change these as high as you want so you can say is one to two or two equals a three or is
four equal to four.
And so on.
So you can check those conditions for you.
And often people like to wrap these separate conditions into parentheses just so it's easier to read.
So you can see that as well there.
So you kind of get an idea of each condition being checked.
It's kind of up to you in the situation whether you want to use print sees it may make your code more
readable so just keep that in mind.
OK.
So let's go into this festering example let's add in some permission variable and we're going to set
this permission variable to a boolean false.
So it's already a boolean.
So I'm going to print is user name equal to check and permission.
So no what's happening here.
For permission I'm not actually providing some sort of comparison.
I'm just providing a straight up boolean because remember comparison operators they always resolve to
a boolean itself.
So really and that or they're just looking for booleans does have to be a comparison operation.
So when you run this think about what I should get adamant is equal to admen.
But right now permission is false.
So when I run this I get back false because currently there is no permission there.
However let's change permission to be true.
Save it and run it and then you get back.
True.
So this sort of clever choosing of your variable names allows your code to be super readable.
So for instance I can say something like logged in is equal to true.
And permission is equal to true.
And later on in my code I could just read type and log in and permission.
And it can even make it more readable by making this variable has permission and I'll change this to
has permission.
And now this basically reads like an English sentence.
I'm asking Prince are they logged in and has permission.
And in this case they are both true.
So the result when I print this is true.
So keep in mind these logical operators they don't necessarily need actual comparison operators they're
just looking for booleans which at the end of the day is what a comparison operation such as username
equals equals check is returning back to you.
OK so that's the very basics of comparison operators and logical operators.
Coming up next we're going to continue our discussion of control flow by talking about if elif and else
statements.
We'll see if they're.